refactor: rethink dummies test doubles (#2647)
input-output-hk/mithril: DEV-ADR.md

To complete
-->

> ## 3. Dummy test double Guidelines
> 
> date: 2025-07-21
> status: Accepted
> 
> ### Context
> 
> The creation of test doubles through `dummy()` functions is used throughout the codebase. There has been inconsistency
> in where these implementations are placed and their visibility, leading to potential maintenance issues and reduced code
> clarity.
> 
> ### Decision
> 
> We will introduce a `Dummy` trait which behave similarly to rust `Default` trait.
> 
> We will follow these guidelines for `Dummy` trait implementations:
> 
> 1. Most implementations should be placed in a `test::double::dummies` module within the crate where the type is defined
> 2. For types that do not expose their fields publicly, implement the `Dummy` trait directly below the type implementation
> 
> ### Consequences
> 
> - Improved consistency in code organization
> - Better discoverability of test doubles
> - Clearer separation between production and test code
> - Easier maintenance of test implementations
> 
> ---
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Guidelines for Dummy Test Doubles

**Date:** 2025-07-21  
**Status:** Accepted  

#### Context

The use of `dummy()` functions for creating test doubles is widespread across the codebase. However, inconsistencies in their placement and visibility have led to maintenance challenges and reduced code clarity.

#### Decision

A `Dummy` trait will be introduced, functioning similarly to Rust's `Default` trait.

The following guidelines will be adopted for implementing the `Dummy` trait:

1. Most implementations should reside in a `test::double::dummies` module within the crate where the type is defined.
2. For types with non-public fields, the `Dummy` trait should be implemented directly below the type's definition.

#### Consequences

- Enhanced consistency in code organization.
- Improved discoverability of test doubles.
- Clearer distinction between production and test code.
- Simplified maintenance of test implementations.  

---
```
